Document OCaml Platform Installer as an alternative installation method (#677)
ocaml/v3.ocaml.org: data/tutorials/gs_00_up_and_running.md

* Linux or macOS: [Installation for Unix, including Linux and macOS](#installation-for-unix)
* Windows: [Installation for Windows](#installation-for-windows)

**Note**

> The [OCaml Platform
> Installer](https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer) is an
> incubating new way to install OCaml. As of 2023, it is in active development. It
> will automatically install opam, OCaml, and the development tools.
> 
> As an alternative to the methods mentionned aboved and detailed below, you can
> try the alpha version of the platform installer to install opam and the
> development tools, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer) for
> the instructions. However, please note that this installer is a work in progress
> and might not work on your system (on the other hand, any feedback is highly
> appreciated).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative to the methods mentionned aboved, the [OCaml Platform
Installer](https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer) is a new way to
install OCaml and the development tools. [See
below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer) for the instructions.
However, please note that it is still experimental and in active development
(any feedback is highly appreciated).
```

* Linux or macOS: [Installation for Unix, including Linux and macOS](#installation-for-unix)
* Windows: [Installation for Windows](#installation-for-windows)

> ### Installation using Ocaml Platform Installer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Installation Using OCaml Platform Installer
```

> As of 2023, the OCaml Plarform Installer, presented here, is new recommended way

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of 2023, the OCaml Platform Installer, presented here, is the new recommended way
```

> to install OCaml in Unix. The `ocaml-platform` binary, automates and set up of a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to install OCaml in Unix. The `ocaml-platform` binary, automates and set up of an
```

> OCaml development environment. However, you need first to install the few system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OCaml development environment. However, you first need to install the few system
```

> dependencies of the OCaml environment, such as a C compiler (e.g. `gcc`) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dependencies of the OCaml environment, such as a C compiler (e.g., `gcc`) and
```

> other system tools: `bzip2`, `make`, `bubblewrap`, `patch`, `curl` and `unzip`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
other system tools: `bzip2`, `make`, `bubblewrap`, `patch`, `curl`, and `unzip`.
```

In most architecture, you can install them using your package manager, for
example on Ubuntu or Debian:
<!-- $MDX skip -->
```bash
$ sudo apt install build-essential bubblewrap unzip
```

> In MacOS, having installed [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) is the only requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In macOS, the installation of [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) is the only requirement.
```

> You can now download and run the installer script and then call ocaml-platform:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now download and run the installer script and then call `ocaml-platform`:
```

```shell
$ bash < <(curl -sL https://ocaml.org/platform/installer.sh)

> $ ocaml-platform

Reviewer 3: Nice!

Once this is merged, maybe we should also modify the installer's README to use the same link?
On one hand, it is a nice url, on the other hand, it is less transparent for users that they are downloading the script included in the latest github release.

Author: Good point. That makes me want to write a patch to `curl` to have an option (say `-3`) to only display redirects. We'd have `bash < <(curl -3L https://ocaml.org/platform/installer.sh)` in the docs and when executed by the users they would see something like that:
```
2022-12-08 15:30:26 https://ocaml.org/platform/installer.sh [redirect]
2022-12-08 15:30:26 https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer/releases/latest/download/installer.sh [redirect]
2022-12-08 15:30:27 https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer/releases/download/0.6.0/installer.sh
```

|

Reviewer 3: That would be really nice!

* Linux or macOS: [Installation for Unix, including Linux and macOS](#installation-for-unix)
* Windows: [Installation for Windows](#installation-for-windows)

> ### Installation using Ocaml Platform Installer

Reviewer: We can cherry-pick this commit https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org/compare/main...up-and-running-with-installer and update the text with your changes I think.

Author: In order to prepare the cherry-pick, I've rebased your patch against the current main. Can you double-check check my conflict resolution is sound? Git conflict resolution gives me goosebumps :-)

Reviewer: The patch still looks good to me yes :)

As of 2023, the OCaml Plarform Installer, presented here, is new recommended way
to install OCaml in Unix. The `ocaml-platform` binary, automates and set up of a
OCaml development environment. However, you need first to install the few system
dependencies of the OCaml environment, such as a C compiler (e.g. `gcc`) and
other system tools: `bzip2`, `make`, `bubblewrap`, `patch`, `curl` and `unzip`.
In most architecture, you can install them using your package manager, for
example on Ubuntu or Debian:
<!-- $MDX skip -->
```bash
$ sudo apt install build-essential bubblewrap unzip
```

In MacOS, having installed [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) and
[Homebrew](https://brew.sh) is required. Here is what needs to be done next:
```zsh

> $ brew install unzip bubblewrap

Reviewer: Are you sure? I never had to do this to use opam on macOS

Author: Let's get rid of this.

[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), OCaml's package manager, introduces the concept of "switches," which is a compiler with a set of packages (libraries and other files). Switches are used to have independent sets of dependencies in different projects.

Alternatively, you can use the alpha-version platform installer to install opam and the development tools, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).

[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), the package manager of OCaml, introduces the concept of "switches," consisting of a compiler together with a set of packages (libraries and other files). Switches are used to have independent sets of dependencies in different projects.

Find all the installation instructions for both Unix-like systems and Windows in the sections below:

* Linux or macOS: [Installation for Unix, including Linux and macOS](#installation-for-unix)
* Windows: [Installation for Windows](#installation-for-windows)

<<<<<<< HEAD
### Installation Using OCaml Platform Installer

As of 2023, the OCaml Platform Installer, presented here, is the new recommended way

> to install OCaml in Unix. The `ocaml-platform` binary, automates and set up of an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to install OCaml in Unix. The `ocaml-platform` binary automates and sets up an
```
no comma needed here

On Unix, it's essential to initialise opam, which will (if needed) install the OCaml compiler. If you already have OCaml installed, opam will use that compiler.  

> This step is done automatically by the alpha-version platform installer, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is done automatically by the beta-version Platform Installer, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).
```

## Setting Up Development Tools

> This step is done automatically by the alpha-version platform installer, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is done automatically by the beta-version Platform Installer, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).
```

Now that the tools are installed, it remains to understand how to use them. Most of them will be driven either by the editor or by Dune, but UTop is handy to try OCaml or a specific library.

## Up and Running with the Platform Installer

As of 2023, the [OCaml Platform
Installer](https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer), presented here,

> is still in active development. It is an incubating alternative way to install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is still in active development. It is an alternative way to install
```

all the tools of the OCaml platform.

> As of any freshly released piece of software you may run into trouble using it,
> we apologies if it is the case. Please [file an
> issue](https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer/issues) if you
> experience difficulties. If it doesn't work at all on your system, follow the
> instructions above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your run into any trouble using it, please don't hesitate to [file an
issue](https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer/issues).
If it doesn't work at all on your system, follow the instructions above.
```

The `ocaml-platform` binary automates the set up of a complete OCaml development
environment. However, you need first to install the few system dependencies of
the OCaml environment, such as a C compiler (e.g. `gcc`) and other system tools:
`bzip2`, `make`, `bubblewrap`, `patch`, `curl` and `unzip`. In most
architecture, you can install them using your package manager, for example on
Ubuntu or Debian:
<!-- $MDX skip -->
```bash
$ sudo apt install build-essential bubblewrap unzip
```

In macOS, having installed [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) is the only requirement.

You can now download and run the installer script (which will call `sudo` at
some point) and then call `ocaml-platform`:
```shell

> $ bash < <(curl -sL https://ocaml.org/platform/installer.sh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ bash < <(curl -sL https://ocaml.org/install-platform.sh)
```

Now that the tools are installed, it remains to understand how to use them. Most of them will be driven either by the editor or by Dune, but UTop is handy to try OCaml or a specific library.

## Up and Running with the Platform Installer

As of 2023, the [OCaml Platform
Installer](https://github.com/tarides/ocaml-platform-installer), presented here,

> is new recommended way to install OCaml in Unix. As of any freshly released

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is new recommended way to install OCaml in Unix. As with any freshly released
```

> is new recommended way to install OCaml in Unix. As of any freshly released

Reviewer 4: I'm afraid this isn't quite how the 'incubated' projects are intended to be used in the Platform categorisation.  If the OCaml Platform installer isn't stable (as is indicated above in the 'installing on Unix' section), then it should not be the recommended way for users to install something on their system.  We should be recommending what actually works, even if it's cumbersome.

The 'incubated' projects should be marked as such, along with channels for feedback so that if users opt-in to try it, they can give feedback.  For a busy user though, the existing mechanisms (e.g. `brew install opam`) should be what we recommend since they are known to work reliably.

Author: Thanks, I will update `platform.eml` accordingly too.

> piece of software you may run into trouble using it, we apologies if it is the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
piece of software, you may run into trouble using it. We apologise if this is the
```
